What is Ritual? Ritual is the most expressive blockchain in existence, with a single focus: enrich what users can do on-chain today to attract the users of tomorrow.

Why does the world need another blockchain? Behind every magnitude increase in blockchain users lies an innovation that enables net-new behavior for the masses. In 2009, Bitcoin enabled anyone, anywhere to send and receive money without relying on centralized intermediaries. In 2015, Ethereum introduced smart contracts, enabling developers to build permissionless, composable financial applications. Yet somewhere along the way we lost sight of building for the net-new user. Today's blockchains prioritize latency and throughput, optimizing for existing users rather than innovating. Ritual was born from a single focus: enrich what users can do on-chain today to attract the users of tomorrow.

Ritual makes smart contracts actually smart. It allows users to natively tap into on-chain AI, backed by the same trustless properties of modern blockchains. By optimizing the underlying architecture for any type of heterogeneous compute, Ritual hyperscales the expressive computation that can be performed on a blockchain.

Expressive heterogeneous compute. Ritual provides specialized execution for AI inference, ZK proofs, TEE code, and cross-chain state access. Scheduled transactions allow recurring, conditional invocation of smart contract functions without the need for external keepers. Enshrined on-chain AI models let you train, track, and trade AI models with on-chain provenance, authenticity, and IP primitives.

EVM++ is Ritual's enhanced version of the EVM that adds native support for AI operations, scheduled transactions, and advanced features while maintaining backward compatibility. This enables sophisticated smart contracts with built-in AI capabilities. Symphony is the consensus protocol with dual proof sharding, distributed verification, and optimal sampling. Resonance is the state-of-the-art surplus-maximizing transaction fee mechanism that efficiently matches supply and demand. Node specialization means heterogeneous nodes optimized for specific workloads like AI, ZK, or TEE. Guardians form a firewall system for nodes to granularly opt-in to execution while still participating in consensus. Ritual nodes are seamlessly backed by Infernet's compute oracle network. Verifiable provenance provides immutable records of model origin, updates, and transformations.
